INTRODUCTION

intuition, and isattested by natural instinct, as seen
in the actions of infanta and animals; that all men's
conduct does as a matter of fact aim at pleasure; that
the proper aim is to secure the greatest balance of
pleasure over pain in the aggregate; that absence

of pain is the greatest pleasure, which can only be
varied, not augmented, by active gratification of the
sense3 that pleasure of the mind is based on pleasure
of the body, yet that mental pleasure may far sur-
pass bodily in magnitude, including as it does with
the consciousness of present gratification the memory
of past and the hope of future pleasure3 that ‘un-
natural and unnecessary’ desires and emotions are a
chief source of unhappiness3 and that Prudence,
“ Temperance or sels-control, and the other recognized
virtues are therefore essential to obtain a life of
the greatest pleasure‚ though at the same time the
virtues are of no value save as conducive to pleasure.

This original, and in some respects paradoxical,
development of hedonism gave no countenance to the
voluptuary. On the contrary Epicurus both preached
and practised the simple life, and the cultivation of
the ordinary virtueS, though under utilitarian sanc·
tions which led him to extreme unorthodoxy in some
particulare. Especially, he denied any absolute
validity to J ustice and to Law, and inculcated absten-
tion from the active duties of citizenship. To Friend-
ship he attached the highest value3 and the School
that he founded in his Garden in a suburb of Athens,
and endowed' by will, was as much a society of
friends as a college of students. lt still survived
arid kept the birthday of its founder in Cicero's time.

Epicurus is the forerunner of the English Utilita-
rians3 buthe differs from them in making no attempt

xvu

 

